Q1: Explain the central limit theorem and give examples of when you can use it in a real-world problem?
Q2: Briefly explain the A/B testing and its application? What are some common pitfalls encountered in A/B testing?
Q3: Describe briefly the hypothesis testing and p-value in layman’s term? And give a practical application for them ?
Q4: Given a left-skewed distribution that has a median of 60, what conclusions can we draw about the mean and the mode of the data?
Q5: What is the meaning of selection bias and how to avoid it?
Q6: Explain the long-tailed distribution and provide three examples of relevant phenomena that have long tails. Why are they important in classification and regression problems?
Q7: What is the meaning of KPI in statistics
Q8: Say you flip a coin 10 times and observe only one head. What would be the null hypothesis and p-value for testing whether the coin is fair or not?
Q9: You are testing hundreds of hypotheses, each with a t-test. What considerations would you take into account when doing this?
Q10: What general conditions must be satisfied for the central limit theorem to hold?
Q11: What is skewness discuss two methods to measure it?
Q12: You sample from a uniform distribution [0, d] n times. What is your best estimate of d?
Q13: Discuss the Chi-square, ANOVA, and t-test
Q14: Say you have two subsets of a dataset for which you know their means and standard deviations. How do you calculate the blended mean and standard deviation of the total dataset? Can you extend it to K subsets?
Q15: What is the relationship between the significance level and the confidence level in Statistics?
Q16: What is the Law of Large Numbers in statistics and how it can be used in data science ?
Q17: What is the difference between a confidence interval and a prediction interval, and how do you calculate them?
Q18: What are the differences between the z-test and t-test?
Q19: When to use a z-test Vs a t-test?
Q20: Given a specific dataset, how do you calculate t-statistic or z-statistics?